International cooperation in the sphere of science and technology.

Belarusian science aims at resourcesaving, energy-efficient technologies, industrial biotechnologies, nanomaterials, environmental protection and information solutions. Different research and development centres contribute to the innovation infrastructure of the Republic of Belarus. The two biggest scientific centres in our country are the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus (NASB) and the High-Tech Park (HTP). Our scientists can be proud of their achievements as they contribute a lot to the development of the world's science.
Belarusian scientists of the National Centre of Particle and Hi-Energy Physics of the Belarusian State University took part in experiments at the Large Hadron Collider in the European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN) which is located at the France-Switzerland border. Our scientists controlled the operation of the Compact Muon Solenoid (CMS).
Belarusian physicists created the source of terahertz radiation which helps to make different objects visible while they are inside solid or liquid bodies.
Our scientists grew a red emerald for the first time in the world. This kind of emerald is very rare in nature, and the artificial analogue created by Belarusian scientists is 100 times cheaper.
Belarusian scientists also created an electronic system "ForestFire" to determine the level of radioactive contamination after forest fires this innovation helps to model possible situations and to find possible solutions during and after forest fires.
Belarusian agriculturists grew new kinds of potato and wheat!
Our scientists created a brand new-generation laser which can be used in different industries from medicine to the manufacturing sector. This laser is smaller, safer for eyes and more functional than its foreign analogues.
Belarus with its scientific potential is now called the Silicon Valley of Europe. The High-Tech Park of Belarus, one of the leading innovation-based IT clusters in Europe, appeared in 2006. The software produced by the HTP resident companies is in high demand abroad and is used by Coca-Cola, Microsoft, Google, Toyota, MTV, Reuters, Samsung, Mitsubishi, British Telecom and the World Bank. In 2011 six resident companies of the HTP were included in the "WORLD Top-100 Providers of IT Services" list. Our country is also number 1 IT technologies exporter within the CIS.
Belarusian company OAO "Peleng" is one of the leading developers of optical devices and optoelectronic systems for military and dual use. The company produces exclusive space equipment. On July 22, 2012 the Belarusian satellite for the remote sensing of the Earth was launched into outer space. This satellite is a part of a cluster of five satellites by the "Soyuz-FG" booster rocket from the Baikonur space launch site. The Belarusian satellite can relocate in the orbit and take images at the required angle. The satellite is fitted with the equipment produced by OAO "Peleng" and works jointly with the Russian satellite "Canopus-B". Peleng also created a "SKIF-GRID" supercomputer on the basis of 12-core AMD Opteron processor and graphic processing units.
Belarus takes an active part in the International telecommunications, information and banking technologies forum TIBO, Belarus' biggest IT forum and one of the major events in the sphere of telecommunications and software in the Baltic States and the CIS. The participants from Belarus, Russia, Europe, Latin America and Asia present the most interesting media projects and modern mass media technologies. The program of the forum includes master classes of famous media persons and presentations of periodicals, TV channels, radio channels and websites. Belarusian scientists presented a unique innovation at the international forum TIBO-2015. A unique chip can help both experts and ordinary buyers to learn all the product information in a flash. Such electronic passports have already been tested by Belarusian producers and buyers of expensive fur products. In a minute, you can see a full file on the chosen product on the screen of your mobile phone. You can learn the quality and origin of the product, place of production and other information.
Annually about 450 international science and technology projects are implemented in Belarus. Some of these projects have bilateral character. Belarus supports bi-lateral cooperation with Russia, Latvia and Lithuania, Ukraine, Poland, Moldova, Kazakhstan, Serbia, China, India, Venezuela and most of them are hosted by the Scientific and Technological Park "Polytechnic" at Belarusian National Technical University. Belarus-South Korean scientific centre is hosted by the NASB.
Among the two most successful bilateral IT achievements are Viber and World of Tanks (WoT).
Viber is the most recognizable Belarusian brand in the IT sector? Viber is called "a Belarusian miracle". This is an instant messaging and voice over IP application for smartphones. With the help of Viber you can exchange video and audio messages. Viber Media Company was founded by Israeli-Belarusian partners Talmon Marko and Igor Magazinnik. The company is run from Israel but has its development centres in Belarus. The company started in 2010 as a small development firm of 40 people and its founder Sergei Goncharic. Nowadays Viber is the leader of social applications category in the Appstores in 30 countries. Viber has about 280 million global registered users.
Another famous Belarusian IT company is Belarusian-Cypriot company "Wargaming" with its massively multiplayer online game "World of Tanks". The developer of WoT "Game Stream", Minsk Development Centre of Wargaming, is a resident company of the High-Tech Park in Belarus. Game Stream provides IT support in organizing international events. The game was officially announced in 2009 and in August 2010 the Russian version of the game was officially released. The players can choose six primary types of battles and take control of a single armoured vehicle and they can communicate with other players through typing or voice chat. In 2011 the number of WoT users reached 1 million. In January 2011 the world record "The Most Players Online Simultaneously" was officially registered by the Guinness Book of Records (91,311 players). In 2012 the game was improved and new features and vehicles were added. Also in 2012 WoT debuted as an eSports game at the World Cyber Games. In 2013 and 2014 WoT was named the "Online Game of the Year" and got the "Golden Joystick Award". Today the number of WoT fans exceeds more than 100 million.
Belarus also has its own Nobel Prize winner in Science. Zhores Ivanovich Alferov was born on March 15, 1930 in Vitebsk, Belarus to a family of a factory manager. He finished high school in Minsk and in 1947 entered Belarusian Politechnic Academy. In 1952 Alferov graduated from Leningrad Electrotechnical Institute and began to work in the Ioffe Physico-Technical Institute where he got several scientific degrees. In 1987 Zhores Alferov became the Director of the Institute. Alferov invented the heterotransistor which revolutionized the mobile phone and satellite communications. This in turn improved semiconductor design in LEDs and CDs. In 2000 Zhores Alferov received the Nobel Prize in Physics together with Herbert Kroemer and Jack Kilby for their work that laid the foundation for the modern era of information technology. Alferov's invention made it possible to transfer all the information from satellites down to the Earth and have many telephone lines between cities. We use his scientific innovations in our everyday life: in mobile phones, CDs, traffic lights, price tag's decoders and even lasers.