DICK SAND,
A CAPTAIN AT FIFTEEN
BY
JULES VERNE
TRANSLATED BY GEORGE MUNRO
1878
Dick Sand, A Captain at Fifteen By Jules Verne.
This edition was created and published by Global Grey
©GlobalGrey 2020
Get more free ebooks at
globalgreyebooks.com
CONTENTS
PART 1
Chapter 1. The Brig-Schooner "Pilgrim"
Chapter 2. Dick Sand
Chapter 3. The Wreck
Chapter 4. The Survivors Of The "Waldeck"
Chapter 5. S. V.
Chapter 6. A Whale In Sight
Chapter 7. Preparations
Chapter 8. The Jubarte
Chapter 9. Captain Sand
Chapter 10. The Four Days Which Follow
Chapter 11. Tempest
Chapter 12. On The Horizon
Chapter 13. Land! Land!
Chapter 14. The Best To Do
Chapter 15. Harris
Chapter 16. On The Way
Chapter 17. A Hundred Miles In Two Days
Chapter 18. The Terrible Word
PART 2
Chapter 1. The Slave Trade
Chapter 2. Harris And Negoro
Chapter 3. On The March
Chapter 4. The Bad Roads Of Angola
Chapter 5. Ants And Their Dwelling
Chapter 6. The Diving-Bell
Chapter 7. In Camp On The Banks Of The Coanza
Chapter 8. Some Of Dick Sand's Notes
Chapter 9. Kazounde
Chapter 10. The Great Market Day
Chapter 11. The King Of Kazounde Is Offered A Punch
Chapter 12. A Royal Burial
Chapter 13. The Interior Of A Factory
Chapter 14. Some News Of Dr. Livingstone
Chapter 15. Where A Manticore May Lead
Chapter 16. A Magician
Chapter 17. Drifting
Chapter 18. Various Incidents
Chapter 19. S. V.
Chapter 20. Conclusion
PART 11
C HAPTER 1. THE B RIG-SCHOONER "PILGRIM "
On February 2, 1876, the schooner "Pilgrim" was in latitude 43° 57' south, and in
longitude 165° 19' west of the meridian of Greenwich.
This vessel, of four hundred tons, fitted out at San Francisco for whale-fishing in the
southern seas, belonged to James W. Weldon, a rich Californian ship-owner, who
had for several years intrusted the command of it to Captain Hull.
The "Pilgrim" was one of the smallest, but one of the best of that flotilla, which James
W. Weldon sent each season, not only beyond Behring Strait, as far as the northern
seas, but also in the quarters of Tasmania or of Cape Horn, as far as the Antarctic
Ocean. She sailed in a superior manner. Her very easily managed rigging permitted
her to venture, with a few men, in sight of the impenetrable fields of ice of the
southern hemisphere. Captain Hull knew how to disentangle himself, as the sailors
say, from among those icebergs, which, during the summer, drift by the way of New
Zealand or the Cape of Good Hope, under a much lower latitude than that which
they reach in the northern seas of the globe. It is true that only icebergs of small
dimensions were found there; they were already worn by collisions, eaten away by
the warm waters, and the greater number of them were going to melt in the Pacific or
the Atlantic.
Under the command of Captain Hull, a good seaman, and also one of the most
skilful harpooners of the flotilla, was a crew composed of five sailors and a novice. It
was a small number for this whale-fishing, which requires a good many persons.
Men are necessary as well for the management of the boats for the attack, as for the
cutting up of the captured animals. But, following the example of certain ship-owners,
James W. Weldon found it much more economical to embark at San Francisco only
the number of sailors necessary for the management of the vessel. New Zealand did
not lack harpooners, sailors of all nationalities, deserters or others, who sought to be
hired for the season, and who followed skilfully the trade of fishermen. The busy
period once over, they were paid, they were put on shore, and they waited till the
whalers of the following year should come to claim their services again. There was
obtained by this method better work from the disposable sailors, and a much larger
profit derived by their co-operation.
They had worked in this way on board the "Pilgrim."
The schooner had just finished her season on the limit of the Antarctic Circle. But
she had not her full number of barrels of oil, of coarse whalebones nor of fine. Even
at that period, fishing was becoming difficult. The whales, pursued to excess, were
becoming rare. The "right" whale, which bears the name of "North Caper," in the
Northern Ocean, and that of "Sulphur Bottom," in the South Sea, was likely to2
disappear. The whalers had been obliged to fall back on the finback or jubarte, a
gigantic mammifer, whose attacks are not without danger.
This is what Captain Hull had done during this cruise; but on his next voyage he
calculated on reaching a higher latitude, and, if necessary, going in sight of Clarie
and Adelie Lands, whose discovery, contested by the American Wilkes, certainly
belongs to the illustrious commander of the "Astrolabe" and the Zelee, to the
Frenchman, Dumont d'Urville.
In fact, the season had not been favorable for the "Pilgrim." In the beginning of
January, that is to say, toward the middle of the Southern summer, and even when
the time for the whalers to return had not yet arrived Captain Hull had been obliged
to abandon the fishing places. His additional crew—a collection of pretty sad
subjects—gave him an excuse, as they say, and he determined to separate from
them.
The "Pilgrim" then steered to the northwest, for New Zealand, which she sighted on
the 15th of January. She arrived at Waitemata, port of Auckland, situated at the
lowest end of the Gulf of Chouraki, on the east coast of the northern island, and
landed the fishermen who had been engaged for the season.
The crew was not satisfied. The cargo of the "Pilgrim" was at least two hundred
barrels of oil short. There had never been worse fishing. Captain Hull felt the
disappointment of a hunter who, for the first time, returns as he went away—or
nearly so. His self-love, greatly excited, was at stake, and he did not pardon those
scoundrels whose insubordination had compromised the results of his cruise.
It was in vain that he endeavored to recruit a new fishing crew at Auckland. All the
disposable seamen were embarked on the other whaling vessels. He was thus
obliged to give up the hope of completing the "Pilgrim's" cargo, and Captain Hull was
preparing to leave Auckland definitely, when a request for a passage was made
which he could not refuse.
Mrs. Weldon, wife of the "Pilgrim's" owner, was then at Auckland with her young son
Jack, aged about five years, and one of her relatives, her Cousin Benedict. James
W. Weldon, whom his business operations sometimes obliged to visit New Zealand,
had brought the three there, and intended to bring them back to San Francisco.
But, just as the whole family was going to depart, little Jack became seriously ill, and
his father, imperatively recalled by his business, was obliged to leave Auckland,
leaving his wife, his son, and Cousin Benedict there.
Three months had passed away—three long months of separation, which were
extremely painful to Mrs. Weldon. Meanwhile her young child was restored to health,
and she was at liberty to depart, when she was informed of the arrival of the
"Pilgrim."3
Now, at that period, in order to return to San Francisco, Mrs. Weldon found herself
under the necessity of going to Australia by one of the vessels of the Golden Age
Trans-oceanic Company, which ply between Melbourne and the Isthmus of Panama
by Papeiti. Then, once arrived at Panama, it would be necessary for her to await the
departure of the American steamer, which establishes a regular communication
between the Isthmus and California. Thence, delays, trans-shipments, always
disagreeable for a woman and a child. It was just at this time that the "Pilgrim" came
into port at Auckland. Mrs. Weldon did not hesitate, but asked Captain Hull to take
her on board to bring her back to San Francisco—she, her son, Cousin Benedict,
and Nan, an old negress who had served her since her infancy. Three thousand
marine leagues to travel on a sailing vessel! But Captain Hull's ship was so well
managed, and the season still so fine on both sides of the Equator! Captain Hull
consented, and immediately put his own cabin at the disposal of his passenger. He
wished that, during a voyage which might last forty or fifty days, Mrs. Weldon should
be installed as well as possible on board the whaler.
There were then certain advantages for Mrs. Weldon in making the voyage under
these conditions. The only disadvantage was that this voyage would be necessarily
prolonged in consequence of this circumstance—the "Pilgrim" would go to
Valparaiso, in Chili, to effect her unloading. That done, there would be nothing but to
ascend the American coast, with land breezes, which make these parts very
agreeable.
Besides, Mrs. Weldon was a courageous woman, whom the sea did not frighten.
Then thirty years of age, she was of robust health, being accustomed to long
voyages, for, having shared with her husband the fatigues of several passages, she
did not fear the chances more or less contingent, of shipping on board a ship of
moderate tonnage. She knew Captain Hull to be an excellent seaman, in whom
James W. Weldon had every confidence. The "Pilgrim" was a strong vessel, capital
sailer, well quoted in the flotilla of American whalers. The opportunity presented
itself. It was necessary to profit by it. Mrs. Weldon did profit by it.
Cousin Benedict—it need not be said—would accompany her.
This cousin was a worthy man, about fifty years of age. But, notwithstanding his fifty
years, it would not have been prudent to let him go out alone. Long, rather than tall,
narrow, rather than thin, his figure bony, his skull enormous and very hairy, one
recognized in his whole interminable person one of those worthy savants, with gold
spectacles, good and inoffensive beings, destined to remain great children all their
lives, and to finish very old, like centenaries who would die at nurse.
"Cousin Benedict"—he was called so invariably, even outside of the family, and, in
truth, he was indeed one of those good men who seem to be the born cousins of all
the world—Cousin Benedict, always impeded by his long arms and his long limbs,
would be absolutely incapable of attending to matters alone, even in the most4
ordinary circumstances of life. He was not troublesome, oh! no, but rather
embarrassing for others, and embarrassed for himself. Easily satisfied, besides
being very accommodating, forgetting to eat or drink, if some one did not bring him
something to eat or drink, insensible to the cold as to the heat, he seemed to belong
less to the animal kingdom than to the vegetable kingdom. One must conceive a
very useless tree, without fruit and almost without leaves, incapable of giving
nourishment or shelter, but with a good heart.
Such was Cousin Benedict. He would very willingly render service to people if, as
Mr. Prudhomme would say, he were capable of rendering it.
Finally, his friends loved him for his very feebleness. Mrs. Weldon regarded him as
her child—a large elder brother of her little Jack.
It is proper to add here that Cousin Benedict was, meanwhile, neither idle nor
unoccupied. On the contrary, he was a worker. His only passion—natural history—
absorbed him entirely.
To say "Natural History" is to say a great deal.
We know that the different parts of which this science is composed are zoology,
botany, mineralogy, and geology.
Now Cousin Benedict was, in no sense, a botanist, nor a mineralogist, nor a
geologist.
Was he, then, a zoologist in the entire acceptation of the word, a kind of Cuvier of
the New World, decomposing an animal by analysis, or putting it together again by
synthesis, one of those profound connoisseurs, versed in the study of the four types
to which modern science refers all animal existence, vertebrates, mollusks,
articulates, and radiates? Of these four divisions, had the artless but studious savant
observed the different classes, and sought the orders, the families, the tribes, the
genera, the species, and the varieties which distinguish them?
No.
Had Cousin Benedict devoted himself to the study of the vertebrates, mammals,
birds, reptiles, and fishes?
No.
Was it to the mollusks, from the cephalopodes to the bryozoans, that he had given
his preference, and had malacology no more secrets for him?
Not at all.
Then it was on the radiates, echinoderms, acalephes, polypes, entozoons, sponges,
and infusoria, that he had for such a long time burned the midnight oil?5
It must, indeed, be confessed that it was not on the radiates.
Now, in zoology there only remains to be mentioned the division of the articulates, so
it must be that it was on this division that Cousin Benedict's only passion was
expended.
Yes, and still it is necessary to select.
This branch of the articulates counts six classes: insects, myriapodes, arachnides,
crustaceans, cirrhopodes, and annelides.
Now, Cousin Benedict, scientifically speaking, would not know how to distinguish an
earth-worm from a medicinal leech, a sand-fly from a glans-marinus, a common
spider from a false scorpion, a shrimp from a frog, a gally-worm from a scolopendra.
But, then, what was Cousin Benedict? Simply an entomologist—nothing more.
To that, doubtless, it may be said that in its etymological acceptation, entomology is
that part of the natural sciences which includes all the articulates. That is true, in a
general way; but it is the custom to give this word a more restricted sense. It is then
only applied, properly speaking, to the study of insects, that is to say: "All the
articulate animals of which the body, composed of rings placed end to end, forms
three distinct segments, and which possesses three pairs of legs, which have given
them the name of hexapodes."
Now, as Cousin Benedict had confined himself to the study of the articulates of this
class, he was only an entomologist.
But, let us not be mistaken about it. In this class of the insects are counted not less
than ten orders:
1. Orthopterans as grasshoppers, crickets, etc. 2. Neuropters as ant-eaters, dragon-
flies or libellula. 3. Hymenopters as bees, wasps, ants. 4. Lepidopters as butterflies,
etc. 5. Hemipters as cicada, plant-lice, fleas, etc. 6. Coleopters as cockchafers, fire-
flies, etc. 7. Dipters as gnats, musquitoes, flies. 8. Rhipipters as stylops. 9. Parasites
as acara, etc. 10. Thysanurans as lepidotus, flying-lice, etc.
Now, in certain of these orders, the coleopters, for example, there are recognized
thirty thousand species, and sixty thousand in the dipters; so subjects for study are
not wanting, and it will be conceded that there is sufficient in this class alone to
occupy a man!
Thus, Cousin Benedict's life was entirely and solely consecrated to entomology.
To this science he gave all his hours—all, without exception, even the hours of
sleep, because he invariably dreamt "hexapodes." That he carried pins stuck in his
sleeves and in the collar of his coat, in the bottom of his hat, and in the facings of his
vest, need not be mentioned.6
When Cousin Benedict returned from some scientific promenade his precious head-
covering in particular was no more than a box of natural history, being bristling inside
and outside with pierced insects.
And now all will be told about this original when it is stated, that it was on account of
his passion for entomology that he had accompanied Mr. and Mrs. Weldon to New
Zealand. There his collection was enriched by some rare subjects, and it will be
readily understood that he was in haste to return to classify them in the cases of his
cabinet in San Francisco.
So, as Mrs. Weldon and her child were returning to America by the "Pilgrim," nothing
more natural than for Cousin Benedict to accompany them during that passage.
But it was not on him that Mrs. Weldon could rely, if she should ever find herself in
any critical situation. Very fortunately, the prospect was only that of a voyage easily
made during the fine season, and on board of a ship whose captain merited all her
confidence.
During the three days that the "Pilgrim" was in port at Waitemata, Mrs. Weldon made
her preparations in great haste, for she did not wish to delay the departure of the
schooner. The native servants whom she employed in her dwelling in Auckland were
dismissed, and, on the 22d January, she embarked on board the "Pilgrim," bringing
only her son Jack, Cousin Benedict, and Nan, her old negress.
Cousin Benedict carried all his curious collection of insects in a special box. In this
collection figured, among others, some specimens of those new staphylins, species
of carnivorous coleopters, whose eyes are placed above the head, and which, till
then, seemed to be peculiar to New Caledonia. A certain venomous spider, the
"katipo," of the Maoris, whose bite is often fatal to the natives, had been very highly
recommended to him. But a spider does not belong to the order of insects properly
so called; it is placed in that of the arachnida, and, consequently, was valueless in
Cousin Benedict's eyes. Thus he scorned it, and the most beautiful jewel of his
collection was a remarkable staphylin from New Zealand.
It is needless to say that Cousin Benedict, by paying a heavy premium, had insured
his cargo, which to him seemed much more precious than all the freight of oil and
bones stowed away in the hold of the "Pilgrim."
Just as the "Pilgrim" was getting under sail, when Mrs. Weldon and her companion
for the voyage found themselves on the deck of the schooner, Captain Hull
approached his passenger:
"It is understood, Mrs. Weldon," he said to her, "that, if you take passage on board
the 'Pilgrim,' it is on your own responsibility."
"Why do you make that observation to me, Mr. Hull?" asked Mrs. Weldon.7
"Because I have not received an order from your husband in regard to it, and, all
things considered, a schooner cannot offer you the guarantees of a good passage,
like a packet-boat, specially intended to carry travelers."
"If my husband were here," replied Mrs. Weldon, "do you think, Mr. Hull, that he
would hesitate to embark on the 'Pilgrim,' in company with his wife and child?"
"No, Mrs. Weldon, he would not hesitate," said Captain Hull; "no, indeed! no more
than I should hesitate myself! The 'Pilgrim' is a good ship after all, even though she
has made but a sad cruise, and I am sure of her, as much so as a seaman can be of
the ship which he has commanded for several years. The reason I speak, Mrs.
Weldon, is to get rid of personal responsibility, and to repeat that you will not find on
board the comfort to which you have been accustomed."
"As it is only a question of comfort, Mr. Hull," replied Mrs. Weldon, "that should not
stop me. I am not one of those troublesome passengers who complain incessantly of
the narrowness of the cabins, and the insufficiency of the table."
Then, after looking for a few moments at her little Jack, whom she held by the hand,
Mrs. Weldon said:
"Let us go, Mr. Hull!"
The orders were given to get under way at once, the sails were set, and the
"Pilgrim," working to get out to sea in the shortest time possible, steered for the
American coast.
But, three days after her departure, the schooner, thwarted by strong breezes from
the east, was obliged to tack to larboard to make headway against the wind. So, at
the date of February 2d, Captain Hull still found himself in a higher latitude than he
would have wished, and in the situation of a sailor who wanted to double Cape Horn
rather than reach the New Continent by the shortest course.8
C HAPTER 2. D ICK SAND
Meanwhile the sea was favorable, and, except the delays, navigation would be
accomplished under very supportable conditions.
Mrs. Weldon had been installed on board the "Pilgrim" as comfortably as possible.
Neither poop nor "roufle" was at the end of the deck. There was no stern cabin, then,
to receive the passengers. She was obliged to be contented with Captain Hull's
cabin, situated aft, which constituted his modest sea lodging. And still it had been
necessary for the captain to insist, in order to make her accept it. There, in that
narrow lodging, was installed Mrs. Weldon, with her child and old Nan. She took her
meals there, in company with the captain and Cousin Benedict, for whom they had
fitted up a kind of cabin on board.
As to the commander of the "Pilgrim," he had settled himself in a cabin belonging to
the ship's crew—a cabin which would be occupied by the second officer, if there
were a second one on board. But the brig-schooner was navigated, we know, under
conditions which enabled her to dispense with the services of a second officer.
The men of the "Pilgrim," good and strong seamen, were very much united by
common ideas and habits. This fishing season was the fourth which they had passed
together. All Americans of the West, they were acquainted for a long period, and
belonged to the same coast of the State of California.
These brave men showed themselves very thoughtful towards Mrs. Weldon, the wife
of the owner of their ship, for whom they professed boundless devotion. It must be
said that, largely interested in the profits of the ship, they had navigated till then with
great gain. If, by reason of their small number, they did not spare themselves, it was
because every labor increased their earnings in the settling of accounts at the end of
each season. This time, it is true, the profit would be almost nothing, and that gave
them just cause to curse and swear against those New Zealand scoundrels.
One man on board, alone among all, was not of American origin.
Portuguese by birth, but speaking English fluently, he was called
Negoro, and filled the humble position of cook on the schooner.
The "Pilgrim's" cook having deserted at Auckland, this Negoro, then out of
employment, offered himself for the place. He was a taciturn man, not at all
communicative, who kept to himself, but did his work satisfactorily. In engaging him,
Captain Hull seemed to be rather fortunate, and since embarking, the master cook
had merited no reproach.
Meanwhile, Captain Hull regretted not having had the time to inform himself
sufficiently about Negoro's antecedents. His face, or rather his look, was only half in9
his favor, and when it is necessary to bring an unknown into the life on board, so
confined, so intimate, his antecedents should be carefully inquired into.
Negoro might be forty years old. Thin, nervous, of medium height, with very brown
hair, skin somewhat swarthy, he ought to be strong. Had he received any
instruction? Yes; that appeared in certain observations which escaped him
sometimes. Besides, he never spoke of his past life, he said not a word about his
family. Whence he came, where he had lived, no one could tell. What would his
future be? No one knew any more about that. He only announced his intention of
going on shore at Valparaiso. He was certainly a singular man. At all events, he did
not seem to be a sailor. He seemed to be even more strange to marine things than is
usual with a master cook, part of whose existence is passed at sea.
Meanwhile, as to being incommoded by the rolling and pitching of the ship, like men
who have never navigated, he was not in the least, and that is something for a cook
on board a vessel.
Finally, he was little seen. During the day, he most generally remained confined in
his narrow kitchen, before the stove for melting, which occupied the greater part of it.
When night came and the fire in the stove was out, Negoro went to the cabin which
was assigned to him at the end of the crew's quarters. Then he went to bed at once
and went to sleep.
It has been already said that the "Pilgrim's" crew was composed of five sailors and a
novice.
This young novice, aged fifteen, was the child of an unknown father and mother. This
poor being, abandoned from his birth, had been received and brought up by public
charity.
Dick Sand—that was his name—must have been originally from the State of New
York, and doubtless from the capital of that State.
If the name of Dick—an abbreviation of Richard—had been given to the little orphan,
it was because it was the name of the charitable passer-by who had picked him up
two or three hours after his birth. As to the name of Sand, it was attributed to him in
remembrance of the place where he had been found; that is to say, on that point of
land called Sandy-Hook, which forms the entrance of the port of New York, at the
mouth of the Hudson.
Dick Sand, when he should reach his full growth, would not exceed middle height,
but he was well built. One could not doubt that he was of Anglo-Saxon origin. He
was brown, however, with blue eyes, in which the crystalline sparkled with ardent
fire. His seaman's craft had already prepared him well for the conflicts of life. His
intelligent physiognomy breathed forth energy. It was not that of an audacious
person, it was that of a darer. These three words from an unfinished verse of Virgil
are often cited:10
"Audaces fortuna juvat"….
but they are quoted incorrectly. The poet said:
"Audentes fortuna juvat"….
It is on the darers, not on the audacious, that Fortune almost always smiled. The
audacious may be unguarded. The darer thinks first, acts afterwards. There is the
difference!
Dick Sand was audens.
At fifteen he already knew how to take a part, and to carry out to the end whatever
his resolute spirit had decided upon. His manner, at once spirited and serious,
attracted attention. He did not squander himself in words and gestures, as boys of
his age generally do. Early, at a period of life when they seldom discuss the
problems of existence, he had looked his miserable condition in the face, and he had
promised to make himself.
And he had made himself being already almost a man at an age when others are
still only children.
At the same time, very nimble, very skilful in all physical exercises, Dick Sand was
one of those privileged beings, of whom it may be said that they were born with two
left feet and two right hands. In that way, they do everything with the right hand, and
always set out with the left foot.
Public charity, it has been said, had brought up the little orphan. He had been put
first in one of those houses for children, where there is always, in America, a place
for the little waifs. Then at four, Dick learned to read, write and count in one of those
State of New York schools, which charitable subscriptions maintain so generously.
At eight, the taste for the sea, which Dick had from birth, caused him to embark as
cabin-boy on a packet ship of the South Sea. There he learned the seaman's trade,
and as one ought to learn it, from the earliest age. Little by little he instructed himself
under the direction of officers who were interested in this little old man. So the cabin-
boy soon became the novice, expecting something better, of course. The child who
understands, from the beginning, that work is the law of life, the one who knows,
from an early age, that he will gain his bread only by the sweat of his brow—a Bible
precept which is the rule of humanity—that one is probably intended for great things;
for some day he will have, with the will, the strength to accomplish them.
It was, when he was a cabin-boy on board a merchant vessel, that Dick Sand was
remarked by Captain Hull. This honest seaman immediately formed a friendship with
this honest young boy, and later he made him known to the ship-owner, James W.
Weldon. The latter felt a lively interest in this orphan, whose education he completed11
at San Francisco, and he had him brought up in the Catholic religion, to which his
family adhered.
During the course of his studies, Dick Sand showed a particular liking for geography,
for voyages, while waiting till he was old enough to learn that branch of mathematics
which relates to navigation. Then to this theoretical portion of his instruction, he did
not neglect to join the practical. It was as novice that he was able to embark for the
first time on the "Pilgrim." A good seaman ought to understand fishing as well as
navigation. It is a good preparation for all the contingencies which the maritime
career admits of. Besides, Dick Sand set out on a vessel of James W. Weldon's, his
benefactor, commanded by his protector, Captain Hull. Thus he found himself in the
most favorable circumstances.
To speak of the extent of his devotion to the Weldon family, to whom he owed
everything, would be superfluous. Better let the facts speak for themselves. But it will
be understood how happy the young novice was when he learned that Mrs. Weldon
was going to take passage on board the "Pilgrim." Mrs. Weldon for several years had
been a mother to him, and in Jack he saw a little brother, all the time keeping in
remembrance his position in respect to the son of the rich ship-owner. But—his
protectors knew it well—this good seed which they had sown had fallen on good soil.
The orphan's heart was filled with gratitude, and some day, if it should be necessary
to give his life for those who had taught him to instruct himself and to love God, the
young novice would not hesitate to give it. Finally, to be only fifteen, but to act and
think as if he were thirty, that was Dick Sand.
Mrs. Weldon knew what her protege was worth. She could trust little Jack with him
without any anxiety. Dick Sand cherished this child, who, feeling himself loved by this
"large brother," sought his company. During those long leisure hours, which are
frequent in a voyage, when the sea is smooth, when the well set up sails require no
management, Dick and Jack were almost always together. The young novice
showed the little boy everything in his craft which seemed amusing.
Without fear Mrs. Weldon saw Jack, in company with Dick Sand, spring out on the
shrouds, climb to the top of the mizzen-mast, or to the booms of the mizzen-topmast,
and come down again like an arrow the whole length of the backstays. Dick Sand
went before or followed him, always ready to hold him up or keep him back, if his six-
year-old arms grew feeble during those exercises. All that benefited little Jack, whom
sickness had made somewhat pale; but his color soon came back on board the
"Pilgrim," thanks to this gymnastic, and to the bracing sea-breezes.
So passed the time. Under these conditions the passage was being accomplished,
and only the weather was not very favorable, neither the passengers nor the crew of
the "Pilgrim" would have had cause to complain.
Meanwhile this continuance of east winds made Captain Hull anxious. He did not
succeed in getting the vessel into the right course. Later, near the Tropic of12
Capricorn, he feared finding calms which would delay him again, without speaking of
the equatorial current, which would irresistibly throw him back to the west. He was
troubled then, above all, for Mrs. Weldon, by the delays for which, meanwhile, he
was not responsible. So, if he should meet, on his course, some transatlantic
steamer on the way toward America, he already thought of advising his passenger to
embark on it. Unfortunately, he was detained in latitudes too high to cross a steamer
running to Panama; and, besides, at that period communication across the Pacific,
between Australia and the New World, was not as frequent as it has since become.
It then was necessary to leave everything to the grace of God, and it seemed as if
nothing would trouble this monotonous passage, when the first incident occurred
precisely on that day, February 2d, in the latitude and longitude indicated at the
beginning of this history.
Dick Sand and Jack, toward nine o'clock in the morning, in very clear weather, were
installed on the booms of the mizzen-topmast. Thence they looked down on the
whole ship and a portion of the ocean in a largo circumference. Behind, the
perimeter of the horizon was broken to their eyes, only by the mainmast, carrying
brigantine and fore-staff. That beacon hid from them a part of the sea and the sky. In
the front, they saw the bowsprit stretching over the waves, with its three jibs, which
were hauled tightly, spread out like three great unequal wings. Underneath rounded
the foremast, and above, the little top-sail and the little gallant-sail, whose bolt-rope
quivered with the pranks of the breeze. The schooner was then running on the
larboard tack, and hugging the wind as much as possible.
Dick Sand explained to Jack how the "Pilgrim," ballasted properly, well balanced in
all her parts, could not capsize, even if she gave a pretty strong heel to starboard,
when the little boy interrupted him.
"What do I see there?" said he.
"You see something, Jack?" demanded Dick Sand, who stood up straight on the
booms.
"Yes—there!" replied little Jack, showing a point of the sea, left open by the interval
between the stays of the standing-jib and the flying-jib.
Dick Sand looked at the point indicated attentively, and forthwith, with a loud voice,
he cried;
"A wreck to windward, over against starboard!"13
C HAPTER 3. THE WRECK
Dick Sand's cry brought all the crew to their feet. The men who were not on watch
came on deck. Captain Hull, leaving his cabin, went toward the bow.
Mrs. Weldon, Nan, even the indifferent Cousin Benedict himself, came to lean over
the starboard rail, so as to see the wreck signaled by the young novice.
Negoro, alone, did not leave the cabin, which served him for a kitchen; and as usual,
of all the crew, he was the only one whom the encounter with a wreck did not appear
to interest.
Then all regarded attentively the floating object which the waves were rocking, three
miles from the "Pilgrim."
"Ah! what can that be?" said a sailor.
"Some abandoned raft," replied another.
"Perhaps there are some unhappy shipwrecked ones on that raft," said
Mrs. Weldon.
"We shall find out," replied Captain Hull. "But that wreck is not a raft. It is a hull
thrown over on the side."
"Ah! is it not more likely to be some marine animal—some mammifer of great size?"
observed Cousin Benedict.
"I do not think so," replied the novice.
"Then what is your idea, Dick?" asked Mrs. Weldon.
"An overturned hull, as the captain has said, Mrs. Weldon. It even seems to me that I
see its copper keel glistening in the sun."
"Yes—indeed," replied Captain Hull. Then addressing the helmsman: "Steer to the
windward, Bolton. Let her go a quarter, so as to come alongside the wreck."
"Yes, sir," replied the helmsman.
"But," continued Cousin Benedict, "I keep to what I have said.
Positively it is an animal."
"Then this would be a whale in copper," replied Captain Hull, "for, positively, also, I
see it shine in the sun!"
"At all events, Cousin Benedict," added Mrs. Weldon, "you will agree with us that this
whale must be dead, for it is certain that it does not make the least movement."14
"Ah! Cousin Weldon," replied Cousin Benedict, who was obstinate, "this would not be
the first time that one has met a whale sleeping on the surface of the waves."
"That is a fact," replied Captain Hull; "but to-day, the thing is not a whale, but a ship."
"We shall soon see," replied Cousin Benedict, who, after all, would give all the
mammifers of the Arctic or Antarctic seas for an insect of a rare species.
"Steer, Bolton, steer!" cried Captain Hull again, "and do not board the wreck. Keep a
cable's length. If we cannot do much harm to this hull, it might cause us some
damage, and I do not care to hurt the sides of the 'Pilgrim' with it. Tack a little,
Bolton, tack!"
The "Pilgrim's" prow, which had been directed toward the wreck, was turned aside by
a slight movement of the helm.
The schooner was still a mile from the capsized hull. The sailors were eagerly
looking at it. Perhaps it held a valuable cargo, which it would be possible to transfer
to the "Pilgrim." We know that, in these salvages, the third of the value belongs to
the rescuers, and, in this case, if the cargo was not damaged, the crew, as they say,
would make "a good haul." This would be a fish of consolation for their incomplete
fishing.
A quarter of an hour later the wreck was less than a mile from the
"Pilgrim."
It was indeed a ship, which presented itself on its side, to the starboard. Capsized as
far as the nettings, she heeled so much that it would be almost impossible to stand
upon her deck. Nothing could be seen beyond her masts. From the port-shrouds
were banging only some ends of broken rope, and the chains broken by the cloaks
of white-crested waves. On the starboard side opened a large hole between the
timbers of the frame-work and the damaged planks.
"This ship has been run into," cried Dick Sand.
"There is no doubt of that," replied Captain Hull; "and it is a miracle that she did not
sink immediately."
"If there has been a collision," observed Mrs. Weldon, "we must hope that the crew
of this ship has been picked up by those who struck her."
"It is to be hoped so, Mrs. Weldon," replied Captain, Hull, "unless this crew sought
refuge in their own boats after the collision, in case the colliding vessel should sail
right on—which, alas! sometimes happens."
"Is it possible? That would be a proof of very great inhumanity, Mr.
Hull."15
"Yes, Mrs. Weldon. Yes! and instances are not wanting. As to the crew of this ship,
what makes me believe that it is more likely they have left it, is that I do not see a
single boat; and, unless the men on board have been picked up, I should be more
inclined to think that they have tried to roach the land. But, at this distance from the
American continent, or from the islands of Oceanica, it is to be feared that they have
not succeeded."
"Perhaps," said Mrs. Weldon, "we shall never know the secret of this catastrophe.
Meanwhile, it might be possible that some man of the crew is still on board."
"That is not probable, Mrs. Weldon," replied Captain Hull. "Our approach would be
already known, and they would make some signals to us. But we shall make sure of
it.—Luff a little, Bolton, luff," cried Captain Hull, while indicating with his hand what
course to take.
The "Pilgrim" was now only three cables' length from the wreck, and they could no
longer doubt that this hull had been completely abandoned by all its crew.
But, at that moment, Dick Sand made a gesture which imperiously demanded
silence.
"Listen, listen!" said he.
Each listened.
"I hear something like a bark!" cried Dick Sand. In fact, a distant barking resounded
from the interior of the hull. Certainly there was a living dog there, imprisoned
perhaps, for it was possible that the hatches were hermetically closed. But they
could not see it, the deck of the capsized vessel being still invisible.
"If there be only a dog there, Mr. Hull," said Mrs. "Weldon," we shall save it."
"Yes, yes!" cried little Jack, "we shall save it. I shall give it something to eat! It will
love us well! Mama, I am going to bring it a piece of sugar!"
"Stay still, my child," replied Mrs. Weldon smiling. "I believe that the poor animal is
dying of hunger, and it will prefer a good mess to your morsel of sugar."
"Well, then, let it have my soup," cried little Jack. "I can do without it very well."
At that moment the barking was more distinctly heard. Three hundred feet, at the
most, separated the two ships. Almost immediately a dog of great height appeared
on the starboard netting, and clung there, barking more despairingly than ever.
"Howik," said Captain Hull, turning toward the master of the
"Pilgrim's" crew, "heave to, and lower the small boat."
"Hold on, my dog, hold on!" cried little Jack to the animal, which seemed to answer
him with a half-stifled bark.16
The "Pilgrim's" sails were rapidly furled, so that the ship should remain almost
motionless, less than half a cable's length from the wreck.
The boat was brought alongside. Captain Hull, Dick Sand and two sailors got into it
at once.
The dog barked all the time. It tried to hold on to the netting, but every moment it fell
back on the deck. One would say that its barks were no longer addressed to those
who were coming to him. Were they then addressed to some sailors or passengers
imprisoned in this ship?
"Is there, then, on board some shipwrecked one who has survived?" Mrs.
Weldon asked herself.
A few strokes of the oars and the "Pilgrim's" boat would reach the capsized hull.
But, suddenly, the dog's manner changed. Furious barks succeeded its first barks
inviting the rescuers to come. The most violent anger excited the singular animal.
"What can be the matter with that dog?" said Captain Hull, while the boat was turning
the stern of the vessel, so as to come alongside of the part of the deck lying under
the water.
What Captain Hull could not then observe, what could not be noticed even on board
the "Pilgrim," was that the dog's fury manifested itself just at the moment when
Negoro, leaving his kitchen, had just come toward the forecastle.
Did the dog then know and recognize the master cook? It was very improbable.
However that may be, after looking at the dog, without showing any surprise,
Negoro, who, however, frowned for an instant, returned to the crew's quarters.
Meanwhile the boat had rounded the stern of the ship. Her aftboard carried this
single name: "Waldeck."
"Waldeck," and no designation of the port attached. But, by the form of the hull, by
certain details which a sailor seizes at the first glance, Captain Hull had, indeed,
discovered that this ship was of American construction. Besides, her name
confirmed it. And now, this hull, it was all that remained of a large brig of five
hundred tons.
At the "Waldeck's" prow a large opening indicated the place where the collision had
occurred. In consequence of the capsizing of the hull, this opening was then five or
six feet above the water—which explained why the brig had not yet foundered.
On the deck, which Captain Hull saw in its whole extent, there was nobody.
The dog, having left the netting, had just let itself slip as far as the central hatch,
which was open; and it barked partly toward the interior, partly toward the exterior.17
"It is very certain that this animal is not alone on board!" observed
Dick Sand.
"No, in truth!" replied Captain Hull.
The boat then skirted the larboard netting, which was half under water.
A somewhat strong swell of the sea would certainly submerge the
"Waldeck" in a few moments.
The brig's deck had been swept from one end to the other. There was nothing left
except the stumps of the mainmast and of the mizzen-mast, both broken off two feet
above the scuttles, and which had fallen in the collision, carrying away shrouds,
back-stays, and rigging. Meanwhile, as far as the eye could see, no wreck was
visible around the "Waldeck"—which seemed to indicate that the catastrophe was
already several days old.
"If some unhappy creatures have survived the collision," said Captain Hull, "it is
probable that either hunger or thirst has finished them, for the water must have
gained the store-room. There are only dead bodies on board!"
"No," cried Dick Sand, "no! The dog would not bark that way. There are living beings
on board!"
At that moment the animal, responding to the call of the novice, slid to the sea, and
swam painfully toward the boat, for it seemed to be exhausted.
They took it in, and it rushed eagerly, not for a piece of bread that Dick Sand offered
it first, but to a half-tub which contained a little fresh water.
"This poor animal is dying of thirst!" cried Dick Sand.
The boat then sought a favorable place to board the "Waldeck" more easily, and for
that purpose it drew away a few strokes. The dog evidently thought that its rescuers
did not wish to go on board, for he seized Dick Sand by his jacket, and his
lamentable barks commenced again with new strength.
They understood it. Its pantomime and its language were as clear as a man's
language could be. The boat was brought immediately as far as the larboard cat-
head. There the two sailors moored it firmly, while Captain Hull and Dick Sand,
setting foot on the deck at the same time as the dog, raised themselves, not without
difficulty, to the hatch which opened between the stumps of the two masts.
By this hatch the two made their way into the hold.
The "Waldeck's" hold, half full of water, contained no goods. The brig sailed with
ballast—a ballast of sand which had slid to larboard and which helped to keep the
ship on her side. On that head, then, there was no salvage to effect.18
"Nobody here," said Captain Hull.
"Nobody," replied the novice, after having gone to the foremost part of the hold.
But the dog, which was on the deck, kept on barking and seemed to call the
captain's attention more imperatively.
"Let us go up again," said Captain Hull to the novice.
Both appeared again on the deck.
The dog, running to them, sought to draw them to the poop.
They followed it.
There, in the square, five bodies—undoubtedly five corpses—were lying on the floor.
By the daylight which entered in waves by the opening, Captain Hull discovered the
bodies of five negroes.
Dick Sand, going from one to the other, thought he felt that the unfortunates were
still breathing.
"On board! on board!" cried Captain Hull.
The two sailors who took care of the boat were called, and helped to carry the
shipwrecked men out of the poop.
This was not without difficulty, but two minutes after, the five blacks were laid in the
boat, without being at all conscious that any one was trying to save them. A few
drops of cordial, then a little fresh water prudently administered, might, perhaps,
recall them to life.
The "Pilgrim" remained a half cable's length from the wreck, and the boat would soon
reach her.
A girt-line was let down from the main-yard, and each of the blacks drawn up
separately reposed at last on the "Pilgrim's" deck.
The dog had accompanied them.
"The unhappy creatures!" cried Mrs. Weldon, on perceiving those poor men, who
were only inert bodies.
"They are alive, Mrs. Weldon. We shall save them. Yes, we shall save them," cried
Dick Sand.
"What has happened to them?" demanded Cousin Benedict.19
"Wait till they can speak," replied Captain Hull, "and they will tell us their history. But
first of all, let us make them drink a little water, in which we shall mix a few drops of
rum." Then, turning round: "Negoro!" he called.
At that name the dog stood up as if it knew the sound, its hair bristling, its mouth
open.
Meanwhile, the cook did not appear.
"Negoro!" repeated Captain Hull.
The dog again gave signs of extreme fury.
Negoro left the kitchen.
Hardly had he shown himself on the deck, than the dog sprang on him and wanted to
jump at his throat.
With a blow from the poker with which he was armed, the cook drove away the
animal, which some of the sailors succeeded in holding.
"Do you know this dog?" Captain Hull asked the master cook.
"I?" replied Negoro. "I have never seen it."
"That is singular," murmured Dick Sand.20
C HAPTER 4. THE SURVIVORS OF THE "WALDECK "
The slave trade was still carried on, on a large scale, in all equinoctial Africa.
Notwithstanding the English and French cruisers, ships loaded with slaves leave the
coasts of Angola and Mozambique every year to transport negroes to various parts
of the world, and, it must be said, of the civilized world.
Captain Hull was not ignorant of it. Though these parts were not ordinarily
frequented by slave-ships, he asked himself if these blacks, whose salvage he had
just effected, were not the survivors of a cargo of slaves that the "Waldeck" was
going to sell to some Pacific colony. At all events, if that was so, the blacks became
free again by the sole act of setting foot on his deck, and he longed to tell it to them.
Meanwhile the most earnest care had been lavished on the shipwrecked men from
the "Waldeck." Mrs. Weldon, aided by Nan and Dick Sand, had administered to them
a little of that good fresh water of which they must have been deprived for several
days, and that, with some nourishment, sufficed to restore them to life.
The eldest of these blacks—he might be about sixty years old—was soon able to
speak, and he could answer in English the questions which were addressed to him.
"The ship which carried you was run into?" asked Captain Hull, first of all.
"Yes," replied the old black. "Ten days ago our ship was struck, during a very dark
night. We were asleep——"
"But the men of the 'Waldeck'—what has become of them?"
"They were no longer there, sir, when my companions and I reached the deck."
"Then, was the crew able to jump on board the ship which struck the
'Waldeck'?" demanded Captain Hull.
"Perhaps, and we must indeed hope so for their sakes."
"And that ship, after the collision, did it not return to pick you up?"
"No."
"Did she then go down herself?"
"She did not founder," replied the old black, shaking his head, "for we could see her
running away in the night."
This fact, which was attested by all the survivors of the "Waldeck," may appear
incredible. It is only too true, however, that captains, after some terrible collision, due
to their imprudence, have often taken flight without troubling themselves about the21
unfortunate ones whom they had put in danger, and without endeavoring to carry
assistance to them.
That drivers do as much and leave to others, on the public way, the trouble of
repairing the misfortune which they have caused, that is indeed to be condemned.
Still, their victims are assured of finding immediate help. But, that men to men,
abandon each other thus at sea, it is not to be believed, it is a shame!
Meanwhile, Captain Hull knew several examples of such inhumanity, and he was
obliged to tell Mrs. Weldon that such facts, monstrous as they might be, were
unhappily not rare.
Then, continuing:
"Whence came the 'Waldeck?'" he asked.
"From Melbourne."
"Then you are not slaves?"
"No, sir!" the old black answered quickly, as he stood up straight. "We are subjects of
the State of Pennsylvania, and citizens of free America!"
"My friends," replied Captain Hull, "believe me that you have not compromised your
liberty in coming on board of the American brig, the 'Pilgrim.'"
In fact, the five blacks which the "Waldeck" carried belonged to the State of
Pennsylvania. The oldest, sold in Africa as a slave at the age of six years, then
brought to the United States, had been freed already many years ago by the
Emancipation Proclamation. As to his companions, much younger than he, sons of
slaves liberated before their birth, they were born free; no white had ever had the
right of property over them. They did not even speak that "negro" language, which
does not use the article, and only knows the infinitive of the verbs—a language
which has disappeared little by little, indeed, since the anti-slavery war. These blacks
had, then, freely left the United States, and they were returning to it freely.
As they told Captain Hull, they were engaged as laborers at an
Englishman's who owned a vast mine near Melbourne, in Southern
Australia. There they had passed three years, with great profit to
themselves; their engagement ended, they had wished to return to
America.
They then had embarked on the "Waldeck," paying their passage like ordinary
passengers. On the 5th of December they left Melbourne, and seventeen days after,
during a very black night, the "Waldeck" had been struck by a large steamer.
The blacks were in bed. A few seconds after the collision, which was terrible, they
rushed on the deck.22
Already the ship's masts had fallen, and the "Waldeck" was lying on the side; but she
would not sink, the water not having invaded the hold sufficiently to cause it.
As to the captain and crew of the "Waldeck," all had disappeared, whether some had
been precipitated into the sea, whether others were caught on the rigging of the
colliding ship, which, after the collision, had fled to return no more.
The five blacks were left alone on board, on a half-capsized hull, twelve hundred
miles from any land.
Then oldest of the negroes was named Tom. His age, as well as his energetic
character, and his experience, often put to the proof during a long life of labor, made
him the natural head of the companions who were engaged with him.
The other blacks were young men from twenty-five to thirty years old, whose names
were Bat (abbreviation of Bartholomew), son of old Tom, Austin, Acteon, and
Hercules, all four well made and vigorous, and who would bring a high price in the
markets of Central Africa. Even though they had suffered terribly, one could easily
recognize in them magnificent specimens of that strong race, on which a liberal
education, drawn from the numerous schools of North America, had already
impressed its seal.
Tom and his companions then found themselves alone on the "Waldeck" after the
collision, having no means of raising that inert hull, without even power to leave it,
because the two boats on board had been shattered in the boarding. They were
reduced to waiting for the passage of a ship, while the wreck drifted little by little
under the action of the currents. This action explained why she had been
encountered so far out of her course, for the "Waldeck," having left Melbourne, ought
to be found in much lower latitude.
During the ten days which elapsed between the collision and the moment when the
"Pilgrim" arrived in sight of the shipwrecked vessel the five blacks were sustained by
some food which they had found in the office of the landing-place. But, not being
able to penetrate into the steward's room, which the water entirely covered, they had
had no spirits to quench their thirst, and they had suffered cruelly, the water casks
fastened to the deck having been stove in by the collision. Since the night before,
Tom and his companions, tortured by thirst, had become unconscious.
Such was the recital which Tom gave, in a few words, to Captain Hull. There was no
reason to doubt the veracity of the old black. His companions confirmed all that he
had said; besides, the facts pleaded for the poor men.
Another living being, saved on the wreck, would doubtless have spoken with the
same sincerity if it had been gifted with speech.
It was that dog, that the sight of Negoro seemed to affect in such a disagreeable
manner. There was in that some truly inexplicable antipathy.23
Dingo—that was the name of the dog—belonged to that race of mastiffs which is
peculiar to New Holland. It was not in Australia, however, that the captain of the
"Waldeck" had found it. Two years before Dingo, wandering half dead of hunger, had
been met on the western coast of Africa, near the mouth of the Congo. The captain
of the "Waldeck" had picked up this fine animal, who, being not very sociable,
seemed to be always regretting some old master, from whom he had been violently
separated, and whom it would be impossible to find again in that desert country. S.
V.—those two letters engraved on his collar—were all that linked this animal to a
past, whose mystery one would seek in vain to solve.
Dingo, a magnificent and robust beast, larger than the dogs of the Pyrenees, was
then a superb specimen of the New Holland variety of mastiffs. When it stood up,
throwing its head back, it equaled the height of a man. Its agility—its muscular
strength, would be sufficient for one of those animals which without hesitation attack
jaguars and panthers, and do not fear to face a bear. Its long tail of thick hair, well
stocked and stiff like a lion's tail, its general hue dark fawn-color, was only varied at
the nose by some whitish streaks. This animal, under the influence of anger, might
become formidable, and it will be understood that Negoro was not satisfied with the
reception given him by this vigorous specimen of the canine race.
Meanwhile, Dingo, if it was not sociable, was not bad. It seemed rather to be sad. An
observation which had been made by old Tom on board the "Waldeck" was that this
dog did not seem to like blacks. It did not seek to harm them, but certainly it shunned
them. May be, on that African coast where it wandered, it had suffered some bad
treatment from the natives. So, though Tom and his companions were honest men,
Dingo was never drawn toward them. During the ten days that the shipwrecked dog
had passed on the "Waldeck," it had kept at a distance, feeding itself, they knew not
how, but having also suffered cruelly from thirst.
Such, then, were the survivors of this wreck, which the first surge of the sea would
submerge. No doubt it would have carried only dead bodies into the depths of the
ocean if the unexpected arrival of the "Pilgrim," herself kept back by calms and
contrary winds, had not permitted Captain Hull to do a work of humanity.
This work had only to be completed by bringing back to their country the
shipwrecked men from the "Waldeck," who, in this shipwreck, had lost their savings
of three years of labor. This is what was going to be done. The "Pilgrim," after having
effected her unloading at Valparaiso, would ascend the American coast as far as
California. There Tom and his companions would be well received by James W.
Weldon—his generous wife assured them of it—and they would be provided with all
that would be necessary for them to return to the State of Pennsylvania.
These honest men, reassured about the future, had only to thank Mrs. Weldon and
Captain Hull. Certainly they owed them a great deal, and although they were only24
poor negroes, perhaps, they did not despair of some day paying this debt of
gratitude.25
C HAPTER 5. S. V.
Meanwhile, the "Pilgrim" had continued her course, making for the east as much as
possible. This lamentable continuance of calms did not cease to trouble Captain
Hull—not that he was uneasy about two or three weeks' delay in a passage from
New Zealand to Valparaiso, but because of the extra fatigue which this delay might
bring to his lady passenger.
Meanwhile, Mrs. Weldon did not complain, and philosophically took her misfortune in
patience.
That same day, February 2d, toward evening, the wreck was lost sight of.
Captain Hull was troubled, in the first place, to accommodate Tom and his
companions as conveniently as possible. The crew's quarters on the "Pilgrim," built
on the deck in the form of a "roufle," would be too small to hold them. An
arrangement was then made to lodge them under the forecastle. Besides, these
honest men, accustomed to rude labors, could not be hard to please, and with fine
weather, warm and salubrious, this sleeping-place ought to suffice for the whole
passage.
The life on board, shaken for a moment from its monotony by this incident, then went
on as usual.
Tom, Austin, Bat, Acteon, and Hercules would indeed wish to make themselves
useful. But with these constant winds, the sails once set, there was nothing more to
do. Meanwhile, when there was a veering about, the old black and his companions
hastened to give a hand to the crew, and it must be confessed that when the
colossal Hercules hauled some rope, they were aware of it. This vigorous negro, six
feet high, brought in a tackle all by himself.
It was joy for little Jack to look at this giant. He was not afraid of him, and when
Hercules hoisted him up in his arms, as if he were only a cork baby, there were cries
of joy to go on.
"Lift me very high," said little Jack.
"There, Master Jack!" replied Hercules.
"Am I very heavy?"
"I do not even feel you."
"Well, higher still! To the end of your arm!" And Hercules, holding the child's two little
feet in his large hand, walked him about like a gymnast in a circus. Jack saw himself,
tall, taller, which amused him very much. He even tried to make himself heavy—
which the colossus did not perceive at all.26
Dick Sand and Hercules, they were two friends for little Jack. He was not slow in
making himself a third—that was Dingo.
It has been said that Dingo was not a sociable dog. Doubtless that held good,
because the society of the "Waldeck" did not suit it. On board the "Pilgrim" it was
quite another thing. Jack probably knew how to touch the fine animal's heart. The
latter soon took pleasure in playing with the little boy, whom this play pleased. It was
soon discovered that Dingo was one of those dogs who have a particular taste for
children. Besides, Jack did it no harm. His greatest pleasure was to transform Dingo
into a swift steed, and it is safe to affirm that a horse of this kind is much superior to
a pasteboard quadruped, even when it has wheels to its feet. So Jack galloped bare-
back on the dog, which let him do it willingly, and, in truth, Jack was no heavier to it
than the half of a jockey to a race-horse.
But what a break each day in the stock of sugar in the store-room!
Dingo soon became a favorite with the whole crew. Alone, Negoro continued to
avoid any encounter with the animal, whose antipathy was always as strong as it
was inexplicable.
Meanwhile, little Jack had not neglected Dick Sand, his friend of old, for Dingo. All
the time that was unclaimed by his duties on board, the novice passed with the little
boy.
Mrs. Weldon, it is needless to say, always regarded this intimacy with the most
complete satisfaction.
One day, February 6th, she spoke of Dick to Captain Hull, and the captain praised
the young novice in the highest terms.
"That boy," he said to Mrs. Weldon, "will be a good seaman some day, I'll guarantee.
He has truly a passion for the sea, and by this passion he makes up for the
theoretical parts of the calling which he has not yet learned. What he already knows
is astonishing, when we think of the short time he has had to learn."
"It must be added," replied Mrs. Weldon, "that he is also an excellent person, a true
boy, very superior to his age, and who has never merited any blame since we have
known him."
"Yes, he is a good young man," continued the captain, "justly loved and appreciated
by all."
"This cruise finished," said Mrs. Weldon, "I know that my husband's intention is to
have him follow a course of navigation, so that, he may afterwards obtain a captain's
commission."
"And Mr. Weldon is right," replied Captain Hull. "Dick Sand will one day do honor to
the American marine."27
"This poor orphan commenced life sadly," observed Mrs. Weldon. "He has been in a
hard school!"
"Doubtless, Mrs. Weldon; but the lessons have not been lost on him. He has learned
that he must make his own way in this world, and he is in a fair way to do it."
"Yes, the way of duty!"
"Look at him now, Mrs. Weldon," continued Captain Hull. "He is at the helm, his eye
fixed on the point of the foresail. No distraction on the part of this young novice, as
well as no lurch to the ship. Dick Sand has already the confidence of an old
steersman. A good beginning for a seaman. Our craft, Mrs. Weldon, is one of those
in which it is necessary to begin very young. He who has not been a cabin-boy will
never arrive at being a perfect seaman, at least in the merchant marine. Everything
must be learned, and, consequently, everything must be at the same time instinctive
and rational with the sailor—the resolution to grasp, as well as the skill to execute."
"Meanwhile, Captain Hull," replied Mrs. Weldon, "good officers are not lacking in the
navy."
"No," replied Captain Hull; "but, in my opinion, the best have almost all begun their
career as children, and, without speaking of Nelson and a few others, the worst are
not those who began by being cabin-boys."
At that moment they saw Cousin Benedict springing up from the rear companion-
way. As usual he was absorbed, and as little conscious of this world as the Prophet
Elias will be when he returns to the earth.
Cousin Benedict began to walk about on the deck like an uneasy spirit, examining
closely the interstices of the netting, rummaging under the hen-cages, putting his
hand between the seams of the deck, there, where the pitch had scaled off.
"Ah! Cousin Benedict," asked Mrs. Weldon, "do you keep well?"
"Yes—Cousin Weldon—I am well, certainly—but I am in a hurry to get on land."
"What are you looking for under that bench, Mr. Benedict?" asked
Captain Hull.
"Insects, sir," returned Cousin Benedict. "What do you expect me to look for, if not
insects?"
"Insects! Faith, I must agree with you; but it is not at sea that you will enrich your
collection."
"And why not, sir? It is not impossible to find on board some specimen of——"
"Cousin Benedict," said Mrs. Weldon, "do you then slander Captain Hull? His ship is
so well kept, that you will return empty-handed from your hunt."28
Captain Hull began to laugh.
"Mrs. Weldon exaggerates," replied he. "However, Mr. Benedict, I believe you will
lose your time rummaging in our cabins."
"Ah! I know it well," cried Cousin Benedict, shrugging his shoulders.
"I have had a good search——"
"But, in the 'Pilgrim's' hold," continued Captain Hull, "perhaps you will find some
cockroaches—subjects of little interest, however."
"Of little interest, those nocturnal orthopters which have incurred the maledictions of
Virgil and Horace!" retorted Cousin Benedict, standing up straight. "Of little interest,
those near relations of the 'periplaneta orientalis' and of the American kakerlac,
which inhabit——"
"Which infest!" said Captain Hull.
"Which reign on board!" retorted Cousin Benedict, fiercely.
"Amiable sovereignty!"
"Ah! you are not an entomologist, sir?"
Never at my own expense."
"Now, Cousin Benedict," said Mrs. Weldon, smiling, "do not wish us to be devoured
for love of science."
"I wish, nothing, Cousin Weldon," replied, the fiery entomologist, "except to be able
to add to my collection some rare subject which might do it honor."
"Are you not satisfied, then, with the conquests that you have made in
New Zealand?"
"Yes, truly, Cousin Weldon. I have been rather fortunate in conquering one of those
new staphylins which till now had only been found some hundreds of miles further, in
New Caledonia."
At that moment Dingo, who was playing with Jack, approached Cousin
Benedict, gamboling.
"Go away! go away!" said the latter, pushing off the animal.
"To love cockroaches and detest dogs!" cried Captain Hull. "Oh! Mr.
Benedict!"
"A good dog, notwithstanding," said little Jack, taking Dingo's great head in his small
hands.29
"Yes. I do not say no," replied Cousin Benedict. "But what do you want? This devil of
an animal has not realized the hopes I conceived on meeting it."
"Ah! my goodness!" cried Mrs. Weldon, "did you, then, hope to be able to classify it
in the order of the dipters or the hymenopters?"
"No," replied Cousin Benedict, seriously. "But is it not true that this Dingo, though it
be of the New Zealand race, was picked up on the western coast of Africa?"
"Nothing is more true," replied Mrs. Weldon, "and Tom had often heard the captain of
the 'Waldeck' say so."
"Well, I had thought—I had hoped—that this dog would have brought away some
specimens of hemipteras peculiar to the African fauna."
"Merciful heavens!" cried Mrs. Weldon.
"And that perhaps," added Cousin Benedict, "some penetrating or irritating flea—of a
new species——"
"Do you understand, Dingo?" said Captain Hull. "Do you understand, my dog? You
have failed in all your duties!"
"But I have examined it well," added the entomologist, with an accent of deep regret.
"I have not been able to find a single insect."
"Which you would have immediately and mercilessly put to death, I hope!" cried
Captain Hull.
"Sir," replied Cousin Benedict, dryly, "learn that Sir John Franklin made a scruple of
killing the smallest insect, be it a mosquito, whose attacks are otherwise formidable
as those of a flea; and meanwhile you will not hesitate to allow, that Sir John Franklin
was a seaman who was as good as the next."
"Surely," said Captain Hull, bowing.
"And one day, after being frightfully devoured by a dipter, he blew and sent it away,
saying to it, without even using thou or thee: 'Go! the world is large enough for you
and for me!'"
"Ah!" ejaculated Captain Hull.
"Yes, sir."
"Well, Mr. Benedict," retorted Captain Hull, "another had said that long before Sir
John Franklin."
"Another?"
"Yes; and that other was Uncle Toby."30
"An entomologist?" asked Cousin Benedict, quickly.
"No! Sterne's Uncle Toby, and that worthy uncle pronounced precisely the same
words, while setting free a mosquito that annoyed him, but which he thought himself
at liberty to thee and thou: 'Go, poor devil,' he said to it, 'the world is large enough to
contain us, thee and me!'"
"An honest man, that Uncle Toby!" replied Cousin Benedict. "Is he dead?"
"I believe so, indeed," retorted Captain Hull, gravely, "as he has never existed!"
And each began to laugh, looking at Cousin Benedict.
Thus, then, in these conversations, and many others, which invariably bore on some
point of entomological science, whenever Cousin Benedict took part, passed away
long hours of this navigation against contrary winds. The sea always fine, but winds
which obliged the schooner to tack often. The "Pilgrim" made very little headway
toward the east—the breeze was so feeble; and they longed to reach those parts
where the prevailing winds would be more favorable.
It must be stated here that Cousin Benedict had endeavored to initiate the young
novice into the mysteries of entomology. But Dick Sand had shown himself rather
refractory to these advances. For want of better company the savant had fallen back
on the negroes, who comprehended nothing about it. Tom, Acteon, Bat, and Austin
had even finished by deserting the class, and the professor found himself reduced to
Hercules alone, who seemed to him to have some natural disposition to distinguish a
parasite from a thysanuran.
So the gigantic black lived in the world of coleopteras, carnivorous insects, hunters,
gunners, ditchers, cicindelles, carabes, sylphides, moles, cockchafers, horn-beetles,
tenebrions, mites, lady-birds, studying all Cousin Benedict's collection, not but the
latter trembled on seeing his frail specimens in Hercules' great hands, which were
hard and strong as a vise. But the colossal pupil listened so quietly to the professor's
lessons that it was worth risking something to give them.
While Cousin Benedict worked in that manner, Mrs. Weldon did not leave little Jack
entirely unoccupied; She taught him to read and to write. As to arithmetic, it was his
friend Dick Sand who inculcated the first elements.
At the age of five, one is still only a little child, and is perhaps better instructed by
practical games than by theoretical lessons necessarily a little arduous.
Jack learned to read, not in a primer, but by means of movable letters, printed in red
on cubes of wood. He amused himself by arranging the blocks so as to form words.
Sometimes Mrs. Weldon took these cubes and composed a word; then she
disarranged them, and it was for Jack to replace them in the order required.31
The little boy liked this manner of learning to read very much. Each day he passed
some hours, sometimes in the cabin, sometimes on the deck, in arranging and
disarranging the letters of his alphabet.
Now, one day this led to an incident so extraordinary, so unexpected, that it is
necessary to relate with some detail.
It was on the morning of February 9th, Jack, half-lying on the deck, was amusing
himself forming a word which old Tom was to put together again, after the letters had
been mixed. Tom, with his hand over his eyes so as not to cheat, as he agreed,
would see nothing, and did see nothing of the work of the little boy.
Of these different letters, about fifty in number, some were large, others small.
Besides, some of these cubes carried a figure, which taught the child to form
numbers as well as to form words.
These cubes were arranged on the deck, and little Jack was taking sometimes one,
sometimes another, to make a word—a truly great labor.
Now, for same moments, Dingo was moving round the young child, when suddenly it
stopped. Its eyes became fixed, its right paw was raised, its tail wagged convulsively.
Then, suddenly throwing itself on one of the cubes, it seized it in its mouth and laid it
on the deck a few steps from Jack.
This cube bore a large letter—the letter S.
"Dingo, well Dingo!" cried the little boy, who at first was afraid that his S was
swallowed by the dog.
But Dingo had returned, and, beginning the same performance again, it seized
another cube, and went to lay it near the first.
This second cube was a large V.
This time Jack gave a cry.
At this cry, Mrs. Weldon, Captain Hull, and the young novice, who were walking on
the deck, assembled. Little Jack then told them what had just passed.
Dingo knew its letters; Dingo knew how to read! That was very certain, that! Jack
had seen it!
Dick Sand wanted to go and take the two cubes, to restore them to his friend Jack,
but Dingo showed him its teeth.
However, the novice succeeded in gaining possession of the two cubes, and he
replaced them in the set.32
Dingo advanced again, seized again the same two letters, and carried them to a
distance. This time its two paws lay on them; it seemed decided to guard them at all
hazards. As to the other letters of the alphabet, it did not seem as if it had any
knowledge of them.
"That is a curious thing," said Mrs. Weldon.
"It is, in fact, very singular," replied Captain Hull, who was looking attentively at the
two letters.
"S. V.," said Mrs. Weldon.
"S. V.," repeated Captain Hull. "But those are precisely the letters which are on
Dingo's collar!"
Then, all at once, turning to the old black: "Tom," he asked, "have you not told me
that this dog only belonged to the captain of the 'Waldeck' for a short time?"
"In fact, sir," replied Tom, "Dingo was only on board two years at the most."
"And have you not added that the captain of the 'Waldeck' had picked up this dog on
the western coast of Africa?"
"Yes, sir, in the neighborhood of the mouth of the Congo. I have often heard the
captain say so."
"So," asked Captain Hull, "it has never been known to whom this dog had belonged,
nor whence it came?"
"Never, sir. A dog found is worse than a child! That has no papers, and, more, it
cannot explain."
Captain Hull was silent, and reflected.
"Do those two letters, then, awake some remembrance?" Mrs. Weldon asked
Captain Hull, after leaving him to his reflections for some moments.
"Yes, Mrs. Weldon, a remembrance, or rather a coincidence at least singular."
What?"
"Those two letters might well have a meaning, and fix for us the fate of an intrepid
traveler."
"What do you mean?" demanded Mrs. Weldon.
"Here is what I mean, Mrs. Weldon. In 1871—consequently two years ago—a
French traveler set out, under the auspices of the Paris Geographical Society, with
the intention of crossing Africa from the west to the east. His point of departure was
precisely the mouth of the Congo. His point of arrival would be as near as possible to33
Cape Deldago, at the mouths of the Rovuma, whose course he would descend.
Now, this French traveler was named Samuel Vernon."
"Samuel Vernon!" repeated Mrs. Weldon.
"Yes, Mrs. Weldon; and those two names begin precisely by those two letters which
Dingo has chosen among all the others, and which are engraved on its collar."
"Exactly," replied Mrs. Weldon. "And that traveler——"
"That traveler set out," replied Captain Hull, "and has not been heard of since his
departure."
"Never?" said the novice.
"Never," repeated Captain Hull.
"What do you conclude from it?" asked Mrs. Weldon.
"That, evidently, Samuel Vernon has not been able to reach the eastern coast of
Africa, whether he may have been made prisoner by the natives, whether death may
have struck him on the way."
"And then this dog?"
"This dog would have belonged to him; and, more fortunate than its master, if my
hypothesis is true, it would have been able to return to the Congo coast, because it
was there, at the time when these events must have taken place, that it was picked
up by the captain of the 'Waldeck.'"
"But," observed Mrs. Weldon, "do you know if this French traveler was accompanied
on his departure by a dog? Is it not a mere supposition on your part?"
"It is only a supposition, indeed, Mrs. Weldon," replied Captain Hull. "But what is
certain is, that Dingo knows these two letters S and V, which are precisely the initials
of the two names of the French traveler. Now, under what circumstances this animal
would learn to distinguish them is what I cannot explain; but, I repeat it, it very
certainly knows them; and look, it pushes them with its paw, and seems to invite us
to read them with it."
In fact, they could not misunderstand Dingo's intention.
"Then was Samuel Vernon alone when he left the sea-coast of the Congo?" ask Dick
Sand.
"That I know not," replied Captain Hull. "However, it is probable that he would take a
native escort."
At that moment Negoro, leaving his post, showed himself on the deck. At first no one
remarked his presence, and could not observe the singular look he cast on the dog34
when he perceived the two letters over which the animal seem to mount guard. But
Dingo, having perceived the master-cook, began to show signs of the most extreme
fury.
Negoro returned immediately to the crew's quarters, not without a menacing gesture
at the dog's skill having escaped him.
"There is some mystery there," murmured Captain Hull, who had lost none of this
little scene.
"But, sir," said the novice, "is it not very astonishing that a dog should know the
letters of the alphabet?"
"No!" cried little Jack. "Mama has often told me the story of a dog which knew how to
read and write, and even play dominoes, like a real schoolmaster!"
"My dear child," replied Mrs. Weldon, smiling, "that dog, whose name was Munito,
was not a savant, as you suppose. If I may believe what has been told me about it,
Munito would not have been able to distinguish the letters which served to compose
the words. But its master, a clever American, having remarked what fine hearing
Munito had, applied himself to cultivating that sense, and to draw from it some very
curious effects."
"How did he set to work, Mrs. Weldon?" asked Dick Sand, whom the history
interested almost as much as little Jack.
"In this way, my friend." When Munito was 'to appear' before the public, letters similar
to these were displayed on a table. On that table the poodle walked about, waiting till
a word was proposed, whether in a loud voice or in a low voice. Only, one essential
condition was that its master should know the word."
"And, in the absence of its master—" said the novice.
"The dog could have done nothing," replied Mrs. Weldon, "and here is the reason.
The letters spread out on the table, Munito walked about through this alphabet.
When it arrived before the letter which it should choose to form the word required, it
stopped; but if it stopped it was because it heard the noise—imperceptible to all
others—of a toothpick that the American snapped in his pocket. That noise was the
signal for Munito to take the letter and arrange it in suitable order."
"And that was all the secret?" cried Dick Sand.
"That was the whole secret," replied Mrs. Weldon. "It is very simple, like all that is
done in the matter of prestidigitation. In case of the American's absence, Munito
would be no longer Munito. I am, then, astonished, his master not being there—if,
indeed, the traveler, Samuel Vernon, has ever been its master—that Dingo could
have recognized those two letters."35
"In fact," replied Captain Hull, "it is very astonishing. But, take notice, there are only
two letters in question here, two particular letters, and not a word chosen by chance.
After all, that dog which rang at the door of a convent to take possession of the plate
intended for the poor passers-by, that other which commissioned at the same time
with one of its kind, to turn the spit for two days each, and which refused to fill that
office when its turn had not come, those two dogs, I say, advanced farther than
Dingo into that domain of intelligence reserved for man. Besides, we are in the
presence of an inscrutable fact. Of all the letters of that alphabet, Dingo has only
chosen these two: S and V. The others it does not even seem to know. Therefore we
must conclude that, for a reason which escapes us, its attention has been especially
drawn to those two letters."
"Ah! Captain Hull," replied the young novice, "if Dingo could speak! Perhaps he
would tell us what those two letters signify, and why it has kept a tooth ready for our
head cook."
"And what a tooth!" replied Captain Hull, as Dingo, opening its mouth, showed its
formidable fangs.36
C HAPTER 6. A WHALE IN SIGHT
It will be remembered that this singular incident was made, more than once, the
subject of conversation held in the stern of the "Pilgrim" between Mrs. Weldon,
Captain Hull, and the young novice. The latter, more particularly, experienced an
instinctive mistrust with regard to Negoro, whose conduct, meanwhile, merited no
reproach.
In the prow they talked of it also, but they did not draw from it the same conclusions.
There, among the ship's crew, Dingo passed merely for a dog that knew how to read,
and perhaps even write, better than more than one sailor on board. As for talking, if
he did not do it, it was probably for good reasons that he kept silent.
"But, one of these fine days," says the steersman, Bolton, "one fine day that dog will
come and ask us how we are heading; if the wind is to the west-north-west-half-
north, and we will have to answer him! There are animals that speak! Well, why
should not a dog do as much if he took it into his head? It is more difficult to talk with
a beak than with a mouth!"
"No doubt," replied the boatswain, Howik. "Only it has never been known."
It would have astonished these brave men to tell them that, on the contrary, it had
been known, and that a certain Danish servant possessed a dog which pronounced
distinctly twenty words. But whether this animal comprehended what he said was a
mystery. Very evidently this dog, whose glottis was organized in a manner to enable
him to emit regular sounds, attached no more sense to his words than do the
paroquets, parrots, jackdaws, and magpies to theirs. A phrase with animals is
nothing more than a kind of song or spoken cry, borrowed from a strange language
of which they do not know the meaning.
However that might be, Dingo had become the hero of the deck, of which fact he
took no proud advantage. Several times Captain Hull repeated the experiment. The
wooden cubes of the alphabet were placed before Dingo, and invariably, without an
error, without hesitation, the two letters, S and V, were chosen from among all by the
singular animal, while the others never attracted his attention.
As for Cousin Benedict, this experiment was often renewed before him, without
seeming to interest him.
"Meanwhile," he condescended to say one day, "we must not believe that the dogs
alone have the privilege of being intelligent in this manner. Other animals equal
them, simply in following their instinct. Look at the rats, who abandon the ship
destined to founder at sea; the beavers, who know how to foresee the rising of the
waters, and build their dams higher in consequence; those horses of Nicomedes, of
Scanderberg, and of Oppien, whose grief was such that they died when their37
masters did; those asses, so remarkable for their memory, and many other beasts
which have done honor to the animal kingdom. Have we not seen birds, marvelously
erect, that correctly write words dictated by their professors; cockatoos that count, as
well as a reckoner in the Longitude Office, the number of persons present in a
parlor? Has there not existed a parrot, worth a hundred gold crowns, that recited the
Apostle's Creed to the cardinal, his master, without missing a word? Finally, the
legitimate pride of an entomologist should be raised to the highest point, when he
sees simple insects give proofs of a superior intelligence, and affirm eloquently the
axiom:
"'In minimis maximus Deus,'
those ants which, represent the inspectors of public works in the largest cities, those
aquatic argyronetes which manufacture diving-bells, without having ever learned the
mechanism; those fleas which draw carriages like veritable coachmen, which go
through the exercise as well as riflemen, which fire off cannon better than the
commissioned artillerymen of West Point? No! this Dingo does not merit so many
eulogies, and if he is so strong on the alphabet, it is, without doubt, because he
belongs to a species of mastiff, not yet classified in zoological science, the canis
alphabeticus of New Zealand."
In spite of these discourses and others of the envious entomologist, Dingo lost
nothing in the public estimation, and continued to be treated as a phenomenon in the
conversations of the forecastle.
All this time, it is probable that Negoro did not share the enthusiasm of the ship in
regard to the animal. Perhaps he found it too intelligent. However, the dog always
showed the same animosity against the head cook, and, doubtless, would have
brought upon itself some misfortune, if it had not been, for one thing, "a dog to
defend itself," and for another, protected by the sympathy of the whole crew.
So Negoro avoided coming into Dingo's presence more than ever. But Dick Sand
had observed that since the incident of the two letters, the reciprocal antipathy
between the man and the dog was increased. That was truly inexplicable.
On February 10th, the wind from the northeast, which, till then, had always
succeeded those long and overwhelming calms, during which the "Pilgrim" was
stationary, began to abate perceptibly. Captain Hull then could hope that a change in
the direction of the atmospheric currents was going to take place. Perhaps the
schooner would finally sail with the wind. It was still only nineteen days since her
departure from the port of Auckland. The delay was not yet of much account, and,
with a favorable wind, the "Pilgrim," well rigged, would easily make up for lost time.
But several days must still elapse before the breezes would blow right from the west.
This part of the Pacific was always deserted. No vessel showed itself in these parts.
It was a latitude truly forsaken by navigators. The whalers of the southern seas were38
not yet prepared to go beyond the tropic. On the "Pilgrim," which peculiar
circumstances had obliged to leave the fishing grounds before the end of the
season, they must not expect to cross any ship bound for the same destination.
As to the trans-pacific packet-boats, it has been already said that they did not follow
so high a parallel in their passages between Australia and the American continent.
However, even if the sea is deserted, one must not give up observing it to the
extreme limits of the horizon. Monotonous as it may appear to heedless minds, it is
none the less infinitely varied for him who knows how to comprehend it. Its slightest
changes charm the imagination of one who feels the poetry of the ocean. A marine
herb which floats up and down on the waves, a branch of sargasso whose light track
zebras, the surface of the waters, and end of a board, whose history he would wish
to guess, he would need nothing more. Facing this infinite, the mind is no longer
stopped by anything. Imagination runs riot. Each of those molecules of water, that
evaporation is continually changing from the sea to the sky, contains perhaps the
secret of some catastrophe. So, those are to be envied, whose inner consciousness
knows how to interrogate the mysteries of the ocean, those spirits who rise from its
moving surface to the heights of heaven.
Besides, life always manifests itself above as well as below the seas. The "Pilgrim's"
passengers could see flights of birds excited in the pursuit of the smallest fishes,
birds which, before winter, fly from the cold climate of the poles. And more than
once, Dick Sand, a scholar of Mrs. Weldon's in that branch as in others, gave proofs
of marvelous skill with the gun and pistol, in bringing down some of those rapid-
winged creatures.
There were white petrels here; there, other petrels, whose wings were embroidered
with brown. Sometimes, also, companies of damiers passed, or some of those
penquins whose gait on land is so heavy and so ridiculous. However, as Captain Hull
remarked, these penquins, using their stumps like true fins, can challenge the most
rapid fishes in swimming, to such an extent even, that sailors have often confounded
them with bonitoes.
Higher, gigantic albatrosses beat the air with great strokes, displaying an extent of
ten feet between the extremities of their wings, and then came to light on the surface
of the waters, which they searched with their beaks to get their food.
All these scenes made a varied spectacle, that only souls closed to the charms of
nature would have found monotonous.
